In the last lecture, we added this navigation and I also mentioned that
you can change the way you use your paths here.
Right now, we use //servers or even with this more complex notation, we have /users as
the first element.
Now what happens if we just use servers here, like this and just use users like this?
Let's save this without the leading slash.
Now if we click there on our links, you'll still see this works absolutely fine,
nothing changed.
Now let's go to our servers component template file here
and for now, let's quickly add an anchor element here
where we also add a routerLink where I add servers again, Reload Page would be a fitting description.
So on the servers component, I now added this routerLink where I basically want to make sure that I stay
on the servers page which I'm already on.
So if we go to servers here, we see the reload page here and if I click it, you'll see we got an error. This
error here occurs because it doesn't find a route which is servers/servers.
Now this error won't occur if on the servers component, I turn this to /servers,
so to an absolute path, it was a relative path. Here
if we now have our console still open and I click reload page, nothing occurs here, nothing, no error occurs
because now it simply navigates to localhost:4200/servers
as you can see down there and if we turn this back to a relative path, the difference was that now
it tries to go /serversServers.
So with a relative path, it always append the path you specify in the routerLink to the end of your current
path
and important here, the current path depends on which component you are currently on.
That is why we could remove that in our navigation where we also use relative paths because that is in
our root component,
this component is not loaded through the router,
so this root component always sits at localhost:4200 slash nothing.
So this is always at our root level which is why we can use relative paths here too
but one layer below that once we loaded a route, for example the servers component, this page is only
loaded if we are at /servers.
So if we add a relative route here, this will now get appended to this route we are on,
so it will try to load servers/servers and therefore it gives us an error in our case because we
haven't registered a servers/servers route.
Now of course using relative paths inside of active components, active routes might be a
nice thing if you have nested routes,
right now it will only break the app though.
Now you can also use relative paths with ./ at the beginning,
this is the same as having nothing there
and you can even navigate around like in a folder directory, you could add ../ which means go
up one level and then add this to the path here.
Now if we do this inside of our a servers component, you will see if I hover over this, now it again only
tries to load /servers and therefore, we don't see an error because now it first goes back one level
which basically is to just our root paths, so it removes one path and important path depends on the
route you're on.
So if you were on servers slash something and this would load this component, it would remove both,
so this does not necessarily only remove one segment here, it removes the currently loaded segment you
could say.
So in this case, it removes this and then adds /servers again which is why this works and this is
how you can navigate around. Absolute paths with a slash at the beginning which will always get appended
to the root domain, relative paths without a slash or with ./ which means added to the currently
loaded path or ../ and you can even add more of them to say well go back ones path, go back
another path,
so always seen from the currently loaded component on and if that is something which is not 100%
clear,
you will see throughout this module but also feel free to play around with it, add your own routes, add some
nesting, add more complex paths and see how this works out.
But for now, let's continue with our application,
I will remove this reload page link and let's enhance this a bit more.